# Air Fare Prediction

## Abstract
Flight price prediction is pivotal in providing customers with information on booking flight tickets. Flight aggregators such as Kayak or Hopper collect information from multiple websites and offer guidance on fares based on historical data. Depending on the circumstances, it can advise customers to buy a ticket immediately or wait for the right time to get the cheapest price. By using historical data, the travel sector can provide better customer service to foster royalty. This project aims at predicting flight prices based on historical data obtained from the Office of Airline Information of the Bureau of Transportation and Statistics from the reporting carriers. The project uses several machine learning techniques to predict flight prices with an R-squared score of 0.47.

## Conclusion
The RMSE values are the lowest for XGBoost followed by Random Forests. The adjusted R-squared value measures the proportion of explained variance in the response variable using the predictor variables. The best adjusted R-squared value achieved was 0.47 by XGBoost. The adjusted R-squared value is not adequate because there might be some other factors that could be affecting the variation in prices. Airfares are typically cheaper when booked in advance and they increase a lot when the departure date nears. This ‘days until journey when booking’ information is not available in the dataset. Some macroeconomic factors also influence flight ticket prices like crude oil prices for which we also need the departure date for each itinerary (not available in the dataset). These crucial pieces of information could make up for some of the missing explained variance in the models.